In this tutorial, we will fix one bug with the camera. You may have noticed this behavior before.
When we are close to some objects, then due to the collision of the spring arm component, the camera enters
into the character. Let's make the following fix. Add a spherical collision to the camera and as soon as this
collision intersects with the collision of the capsule, we will make the character's mesh invisible.
Add a forward declaration for the sphere component. We work in the PlayerCharacter class. We create a property for the component.
Let's call it CameraCollisionComponent.
Add the BeginPlay function.
Move to the .cpp file. We create a body for the BeginPlay function.
Include the sphere component's header file.
And let's create it in the constructor.
We attach this collision to the camera component.
Let's set the collision radius as well. Let's put some small one.
Let there be 10 units.
And we will explicitly indicate the reaction of the collision to all channels.
The type of reaction is overlap, that is, when collisions intersect.
Next, you need to make bind functions that will be called when collision crossing events occur.
Let's also add check.
There are two delegates for overlap events: the first one is called OnComponentBeginOverlap.
It is called when one collision begins to cross another.
This is a dynamic delegate - we need to use the AddDynamic macro.
Let's add a non-existent function: OnCameraCollisionBeginOverlap.
The second delegate is named OnComponentEndOverlap. It is called when collisions no longer have intersection points.
For our callback functions, we need to copy the signature of the delegate. It is quite cumbersome.
Has 6 parameters.
Let's copy it completely without transferring it to the player character header file.
We also need to add the UFUNCTION macro.
We declare the first function OnCameraCollisionBeginOverlap. Paste the copied signature.
And you need to remove the extra commas.
We declare the second function OnCameraCollisionEndOverlap.
The second delegate has a different signature. Let's copy it as well. Press f12.
Find the signature at the top of the .h file. The delegate has 4 parameters. We copy them.
Insert player character into the header file. Also clean the commas. We create a body for each function.
The most interesting thing is that we will not need any of the parameters that are passed to the function.
In both callbacks, we will call a helper function called CheckCameraOverlap.
In it, we will check whether the spherical collision crosses the capsule or not. We declare the function in the .h file.
We create the body of the function.
Let's create a local boolean variable. Let's call it HideMesh. Set it to true
if the components overlap and false if not. To determine this, we will use the function of the UPrimitiveComponent class
called IsOverlappingComponent. It takes another component as a parameter
and returns true if component collisions intersect.
Let's pass the capsule component as a parameter.
We also include the header file of the capsule component.
Depending on whether the components intersect or not, we can change the visibility of our mesh.
To do this, we will use the SetOwnerNoSee function.
and pass HideMesh to it as a parameter. Let's check what happened. Compile.
Open the character's blueprint.
Go to viewport. We make sure that a collision has been added to the camera.
We start the game.
We run to the wall.
And if the camera enters the capsule, then the mesh disappears, but the child mesh of the weapon is visible. This can also be tweaked.
In our specific case, we can do the following thing: get an array of all the
children of the mesh and also set their visibility according to the HideMesh flag.
You can use a function called GetChildrenComponents to get child components.
If the first parameter is set to true, then descendants from all levels are returned, if false, then only descendants of the first level are returned.
The second parameter is an array by reference; pointers to all child components will be passed to it.
Create this MeshChildren array.
After that, we need to go through all the components and set the visibility depending on the flag.
Create a range for loop. The only thing is that Scene Component is one of the most basic classes in the component hierarchy
and it does not have the SetOwnerNoSee function. this function appears in the
component hierarchy for the UPrimitiveComponent type, so we will cast to this type.
If the pointer is nonzero,
then the SetOwnerNoSee function can be called.
Just in case, let me remind you: We considered SetOwnerNoSee when we worked with the text component of lives.
Let's click on the functions F12. Make sure the SetOwnerNoSee is indeed in the UPrimitiveComponent.
And UPrimitiveComponent itself inherits from USceneComponent. We compile the project.
We start the game. We run to the wall.
And we don't see the weapon. The special effects spawn, but we will not tweak them in any way.
Fixing meshes is enough for us.